So let's look at a demonstration of static not in this example of three radhe radhe a one Rodek two
and rob of three Rodda one is connected to Radha to using Network 10 1 1 0 slushed 24.
This will represent the Insight Network Rodda to in turn is connected to rotatory using eight dot 0.00
slushed 24.
This will represent the outside network network 8 is owned by Level 3 communications.
This is one of a range of slash 8 public IP addresses.
Others include toll for AT&T 17 for Apple and 19:4 forward.
So for our demonstration we'll pretend that this is the internet outside network we'll have done on
these routers configure IP addresses and a static route on Route 1.
So on a one show run interface if 0 0 you can see the IP address and show IP route shows me that that
network is directly connected to fast Ethernet 00 and router one has a static default route to route
a to rotisserie however does not have routing on pre-configured an IP address on the first Ethan that
interface
but show IP that shows us that there is no default route there are no IP protocols running on this router.
It only has this IP address configured on fossa.
Ethan it is 0 0 right.
2 in turn has 10 1 1 2 configured on fossa.
Ethan it is 0 0 and 8 1 1 1.
Configure it on.
Ethan it is 0 1.
It also has no static routes and no routing protocols enabled.
All it has is an IP address on this interface and an IP address on this interface.
At the moment rotisseries not able to ping wrote a one.
Notice the pings are coming out.
If we use the command debug IP packet and pings that address again we can see that the traffic is unreadable
router 3 doesnt know how to get to 10 1 1 1 will turn the debugger off.
It can however get to eight triple one.
In other words Rodda to serrata three can ping router 2 but is not able to ping wrote a one on one I'll
do it debug IP ICMP so we can see when traffic does arrive on that Grada.
So once we do our ping tests we'll be able to see the output on Rotto one show IP net translations shows
me that on Rodda to.
No that has been enabled.
There are no translations at the moment.
So Kaante interface if 0 1 IP Nat outside
this is going to be outside network on router 2 you need to tell the Rodda which interfaces are inside
and which interfaces outside.
In this example I'm using Jeana's 3 so it's taking a while to bring up Nat but there we go.
On the inside interface we need to configure IP not inside.
And now that we configuring stedding that we use the common IP that we have a few options we can do
that of inside hosts or not of outside hosts in our example we want to know that this IP address which
is an insider inside hosts are going to specify inside we're going to natter the source IP address of
packet's not to the destination.
So when traffic gets sent from our one two or three the source IP address is going to be knotted and
not the destination IP address.
We could use a list I wrote map or static in our example we want to use static.
We want to specify a static local to global mapping.
So on Cisco devices the first IP address that you're going to configure is the actual IP address of
a device.
So in my example this is the actual IP address of the host some specifying that.
So I need to specify source
I've then have a few options I can specify the IP address and protocols.
In my example I want to Nat IP address 10 1 1 1 which is the actual IP address of the device.
All IP traffic is going to be nattered.
You can specify that only TZP or UDP traffic is not.
But in our example we are specifying that all IP traffic is netted more complex examples are not necessary
for the CCMA.
But I will demonstrate them just to make sure that you understand those options.
Here we are simply being a one to one mapping of an IP address we then need to specify the global IP
address or an interface.
So in my example I'm just going to pick an IP address in this range eight dot 1.1 some simply going
to choose 8 dot wandered 1.5.
That address is not physically configured any way.
We can specify various options but I'm simply going to use carriage return to create to the next entry.
So now when I type show IP Nat translations we can see that the inside local address.
So the physical PC on the inside network went on the local area network has the IP address inside local
IP address on the lam so logically we are saying that this is our LAN local area network and this is
the Internet in our example.
So global Internet so this hosts IP address on the global Internet will appear as follows.
So on.
Rotisserie can we ping Tim one on one.
No we can't we can ping that address at the moment because this device has no route to get to this IP
address.
However Kennet ping 8 1 1 5 took it a while.
But notice the pings started succeeding.
And on Radio 1 we see the echo reply from a source of 10 1 1 1 to a destination of 8 1 2 Rato one is
replying using this address.
But what is wrong is we actually think it's pinging.
So let's do a debug IP ICMP on the site and ping 8 1 1 5 again.
Notice it's receiving traffic from 8 1 1 5 but rather one is actually sending it from 10 1 1 1.
So from rotisseries point of view the destination IP address is a 1 1 5 that gets translated to 10 1
1 1 hits those Rodda and it replies with a source IP address of 10 1 1 1 when it hits rockety.
It's translated to 8 1 1 5 and forwarded to router 3.